There was once a poor widow who lived in a cottage with her son Jack. He was young and heedless, and had never done any work. At last the times grew hard, and his mother could not earn any money - and she saw that to get food they must sell their cow. She blamed Jack for being so useless, and for a time he felt very sad, and then began to tease his mother to let him take the cow to the market to sell. She did not think he knew enough to get what the cow was worth, but at last let him go. Before he had gone far he met a butcher who asked him what he was going to do with the cow. Jack said he was going to sell her. The  man showed him some brightly colored beans and Jack thought what pretty playthings they would make.
The butcher, seeing that Jack was pleased with the beans, offered to give them all to him if he would let him have the cow. Jack at once agreed to do so, and set off for home with them as fast as he could go. When he showed the beans to his mother she was very angry, and said ot him; “how could you be such a foolish boy?”
Then she threw the beans out of the window, and sent Jack supperless to bed.
When Jack looked out of the window the next morning, he saw a great stalk which was not there the day before. The beans had taken root and shot upward towards the clouds. Jack said he meant to climb up that long ladder and see where it led to. His mother cried out, but Jack paid no heed. She soon lost sight of him.
When Jack reached the top of the bean-stalk, he looked around to see what kind of country he was in. It was a curious place, and while he was looking around, a beautiful fairy came and stood beside him. She said, “I will be your friend. In yonder castle, lives a giant who robbed your father and killed him. And your mother fled from him with you in her arms. It is his fault that you are so poor! So set your wits to work to get back what he owes you. Be brave and bold, and I will be sure to help you.”
Jack went to the castle and knocked at the door. The giant’s wife opened it and said, “My husband is a bad man, and will kill and eat you.” Jack said he was too hungry and tired to go further, and the giant’s wife, who had a kind heart, brought him in and gave him a nice supper. Jack has just finished, when they heard a mighty tramp outside.
The giant’s wife said, “That is my husband!” and whisked Jack into a chest, and shut the lid on him. The giant was very hungry and cross, and cried out - “I smell fresh meat!”
“On no, you don’t,” said his wife; and set his supper before him.
As soon as he had finished his meal, he called to his wife to bring him his hen. Jack lifted the lid of the chest, to see what the giant was doing. A fine looking hen was on the table, and each time the giant said, “Lay!” the hen would lay an egg of solid gold.
Very soon the giant fell asleep; then Jack crept out of the chest, seized the hen, ran out of the house, slid down the bean-stalk, and was soon at home. His mother was delighted to see him back, and very happy when he showed her the hen. For a while they lived at their ease; but Jack had an idea that the fairy meant him to do something more, so he made a second trip up the bean-stalk.
In a short time, he made his appearance at the giant’s castle, and begged for a night’s lodging. This time he had hard work to get in, for his wife said he had blamed her for the loss of his favorite hen. But Jack begged so hard, that at last she let him in, and gave him some supper, and hid him in the chest as before. This time the giatn’s supper was salt-pork and codfish, which made him very thirsty, and he drank three casks of beer. As soon as he had finished, he made his wife bring him his money-bags. He had drunk so much beer, that he fell asleep while counting it. When Jack heard him snore, he stole out of his hiding-place, seized the money-bags, ran out, and was off down the bean-stalk before the giant woke up.
When he came back, he found his mother quite ill, but she soon got well when she had him back again safe and well. With the bags of gold they rebuilt the cottage and lived happily, until Jack thought he would make one more visit to the giant’s house. By this time, his poor wife had had so many beatings that she was very loth to let anyone in. But at last she let Jack in, gave him some supper, and hid him where he had been hidden twice before.
As usual, when the giant came in, he roared out that he smelled fresh meat, and began hunting for it. He soon tired of that, and, being hungry, sat down and ate his supper. Then, being in a good humor, he told his wife to bring his harp. Now this harp was a wonderful instrument. When placed on the table, it played of itself, the most beautiful music.
The hard now played softly and sweetly, and the giant growing sleepy, lay at full length on the floor, and began to snore loudly.
“Now,” thought Jack, “is my time!” and he stole from his hiding-place and seized the harp. But the harp was enchanted, and as soon as Jack touched it, it cried out in such a way, that it woke the giant, who started up with a loud roar. Jack kept hold of the harp, and fled from their house, - and reached the bean-stalk, down which he slid, and was on the ground by the time the giant appeared at the top of the ladder.
Jack called to his mother to bring him an axe. With two strokes of it, the bean-stalk shook and cracked; with the third it snapped in two, the giant lost his hold, and fell to the ground where he lay crushed and dead. When his mother looked at his face, she was astonished to find that it was the cruel monster, who had murdered her husband and robbed the of all they had.
Now that their enemy was dead and the bean-stalk was cut down, Jack became a great man and stayed at home with his mother, and they lived happily together for many years.