Many years ago, in the wonderful time when King Arthur ruled over England, there lived in Cornwall a number of giants, who never did any work, but stole the sheep and cattle from the people in the country round. Some of them even ate little boys and girls when they wanted a specially good supper.
These giants were so tall that the sea only came up to their knees. And when the peasants saw them wading through it they were terrible frightened, and they fled into the woods and hid. However, in one of the villages lived a little boy called Jack. He was a very brave little boy, and when he was seven years old he said: “Why is everyone so afraid of giants? I will kill them, and then no one will be afraid any more.”
Close by there was a huge castle, which belonged to a giant called Cormoran. He was eighteen feet high, and when he was very hungry he would walk down into the village, pick up a man in each hand, and carry them off to broil for his breakfast.
Now Jack determined to put a stop to this, so one night he set out for the castle with a spade, a horn, and a pole-axe. With the spade he dug a trench twenty feet long, and twenty feet wide, and twenty feed deep. Then he covered it all over with sticks, and strewed the sticks with earth, so that it looked just the same as before.
When he had quite finished, the dawn was breaking in faint golden hues across the sky, and then he blew a terrific blast on his horn.
Out of the Castle walked the huge giant on to the green sward. “Who has dared to wake me?” he roared in a voice of thunder. “You shall be broiled for my breakfast.”
“You had better catch me first,” retorted Jack, who passed for a wit in the village.
“You young rascal!” And with this the giant advanced with great strides to catch him, but Jack only danced with glee and blew his horn again and again. In another moment the giant had fallen into the trench, and was howling with rage and pain.
“How about your breakfast now?” asked Jack, and he struck the giant a heavy blow on his head with the pole-axe and killed him. Then he cut off his head and brought it home to the village, and the peasants were so pleased to see Cormoran dead, that they clubbed together and bought Jack a sword, on which was written in gold letters:
“This is the valiant Englishman
Who slew the giant Cormoran.”
And after that they gave him the name of “Jack the Giant Killer,” and so he is always called.
Several years passed away, but Jack was always thinking of giants, and always longing to kill another. At least he made up his mind to travel into Wales, and to go to King Arthur’s Court. So he set out, and walked on along the high road until in the distance he saw a great castle standing on a hill, and he thought that he would go there and ask for shelter. So he knocked at the door of the castle, and it was opened by a giant, called Blunderbore, who seemed very hospitable, and asked him to pass the night with him He gave Jack a good supper, and then took him up into a pretty bedroom, and wished him a good night. But as he was leaving the room Jack heard him muttering to himself:
“Altho’ you lodge with me this night,
You shall not see the morning light;
My club shall dash your brains out quite.”
so Jack put a great billet of wood in the bed, and then he crept under the bed and hid himself. At midnight the giant came into the room very quietly, and hit three heavy blows with his club on the bed, and then left the room chuckling to himself. He was somewhat startled when Jack appeared at breakfast next morning, but he asked in a friendly voice: “Well, how did you sleep, my lad?” “Oh, very well,” answered Jack, “only a rat gave me two or three blows with his tail.” Then he began to put the hasty pudding that the giant had given him to eat into a leathern wallet inside his coat, pretending all the time to swallow it. And when they had both finished their breakfast, Jack said to the giant: “I can do a great many things; I can cut my head off and put it on again; and see here what I can do.” With this he took a knife and ripped up the wallet, so that the hasty pudding all fell out. “Odds, splutter!” said the giant, furious at being outdone, “hur can do that hurself,” And he snatched the knife from Jack and ripped open his own stomach so that he died. Then Jack went on his way to the Court of King Arthur, and was enrolled as one of the Knights of the Round Table. He was a great favourite, and used to go on many expeditions with the King’s son. One day the Prince told him that he was very unhappy, for there was a beautiful Princess whom he wanted to marry, but the Princess was in the hands of an enchanter, and no one could find out how to free her. “Well,” said Jack, “Let us go together and find the enchanter.” So they started off one fine day, and after they had walked a very long way, they found themselves in a wood, and Jack persuaded the Prince to rest in the wood while he went and looked for a house. When he had walked about five minutes longer he found himself at the walls of a great castle. Jack after a few moments’ hesitation, and drawing his sword so as to be prepared, knocked at the gate, and out came a giant with two heads. “I am your cousin Jack, come with news,” said Jack. “The King’s son is coming with three thousand men to kill you.” “Oh dear! cousin  Jack, I do not want to be killed,” moaned the giant. “Lock me up in the cellar, and keep the key yourself until they are gone.”
So Jack took the key and locked the giant up. Then he went back to the Prince and brought him to the castle, and they passed a merry evening together. In the morning Jack collected as much treasure as the Prince could carry, and sent him on into the wood with it, while he let the giant out from the cellar. The giant thanked him much for his kindness. “And now,” he said, “I will give you something that will be useful to you.” And he brought out of his garret an old coat, an old hat, an old pair of shoes, and a rusty sword. “Take these,” he said, “the coat will make you invisible, the hat will make you so wise that you will know everything, the shoes will make you swift as the wind, and with the sword you will be able to cut through anything.” So Jack took them all and joined the Prince, and they journeyed on together. Soon they came to another castle, where lived a very cruel giant. Round this castle was a wide, deep moat, and across the moat was a drawbridge. “Now,” said Jack, “I will go and speak to the giant, while you cut the drawbridge through. He left the King’s son to do this, and, putting on his coat of darkness, walked over the bridge into the courtyard, where he found the giant with his club in his hand.
“Fe, fi, fo, fut. I smell the blood of an Englishman:
Be he alive, or be he dead, I’ll grind his bones to make my bread,”
he called out for he could smell Jack, though he could not see him. “Well,” said Jack, taking off his coat, “you may catch me if you like.” Then round the courtyard he ran with the giant after him. Across the drawbridge he darted and after him lumbered the giant, but his weight was so great, that crash went the bridge, and he fell into the moat and was drowned. Then Jack and the King’s son continued their journey, till at last they arrived at the abode of the enchanter Galligantua. And as the door was guarded by two ferocious griffins, Jack put on his coat of darkness and marched through without the least fear, for of course the griffins could not see him; and when he got inside he saw an enormous horn, upon which was written:
“Whoever can this trumpet blow, shall cause the giant’s overthrow.”
“That will I do,” said Jack, and he blew a tremendous blast that made the castle walls shake. The griffins fell down dead, and then helter-skelter, through the great hall, rushed a group of terrified animals. All were Princes and Princesses, who had been changed into animals by the enchanter Galligantua. Last of all came a beautiful gazelle and a young deer. When these two saw Jack, they fawned on him, and followed him till he came to a small study. Here he found the enchanter and cut off his head with his sharp sword, and as he did so, the deer and the gazelle turned into two beautiful sisters. The young Prince immediately knew his Princess, who had been changed into a gazelle; and the very next day he married her, while Jack married her sister, and they all lived happily ever after.