   'You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice's, and they walked off together.
   'When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very hopeful tone though), 'I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL. Soup does very well without—Maybe it's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule, 'and vinegar that makes them sour—and camomile that makes them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew that: then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you know—'
   'Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.
   Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin. However, she did not like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.
   ''Tis so,' said the Duchess: 'and the moral of that is—"Oh, 'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'
   'Ah, well! It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess, digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added, 'and the moral of THAT is—"Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves."'
   'I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist,' the Duchess said after a pause: 'the reason is, that I'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?'
   'Very true,' said the Duchess: 'flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that is—"Birds of a feather flock together."'
   'Right, as usual,' said the Duchess: 'what a clear way you have of putting things!'
   'Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said; 'there's a large mustard-mine near here. And the moral of that is—"The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours."'
   'I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; 'and the moral of that is—"Be what you would seem to be"—or if you'd like it put more simply—"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise."'
   'That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess replied, in a pleased tone.
   'Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess. 'I make you a present of everything I've said as yet.'
   'Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin.
   'Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, 'as pigs have to fly; and the m—'
   'A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.
   The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.
   The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence, and were resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment's delay would cost them their lives.
   Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, 'Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'
   'It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.
   'Come on, then,' said the Queen, 'and he shall tell you his history,'
   They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) 'Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, 'and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen: so she waited.
   'What IS the fun?' said Alice.
   'Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went slowly after it: 'I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!'
   So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.
   'I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: 'sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished.'
   'Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, 'I was a real Turtle.'
   'When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, 'we went to school in the sea. The master was an old Turtle—we used to call him Tortoise—'
   'We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock Turtle angrily: 'really you are very dull!'
   'Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe it—'
   'You did,' said the Mock Turtle.
   'We had the best of educations—in fact, we went to school every day—'
   'With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.
   'And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.
   'Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief. 'Now at OURS they had at the end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING—extra."'
   'I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. 'I only took the regular course.'
   'Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock Turtle replied; 'and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'
   The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. 'What! Never heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed. 'You know what to beautify is, I suppose?'
   'Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, 'if you don't know what to uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'
   'Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting off the subjects on his flappers, '—Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, that used to come once a week: HE taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'
   'Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said: 'I'm too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.'
   'I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: 'he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'
   'And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a hurry to change the subject.
   'What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.
   This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark. 'Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?'
   'And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.
