   The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—'I wish they'd get the trial done,' she thought, 'and hand round the refreshments!' But there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about her, to pass away the time.
   The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming.
   The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. 'What are they doing?' Alice whispered to the Gryphon. 'They can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'
   'Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, 'Silence in the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who was talking.
   One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate.
   On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:—
   'Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.
   'Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, 'First witness!'
   'You ought to have finished,' said the King. 'When did you begin?'
   'Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.
   'Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.
   'It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.
   'I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation; 'I've none of my own. I'm a hatter.'
   'Give your evidence,' said the King; 'and don't be nervous, or I'll have you executed on the spot.'
   Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her.
   'I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly: 'I'm growing.'
   'Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly: 'you know you're growing too.'
   All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers of the court, 'Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.
   'I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a trembling voice, '—and I hadn't begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—'
   'It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.
   'I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, 'and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—'
   'You did!' said the Hatter.
   'He denies it,' said the King: 'leave out that part.'
   'After that,' continued the Hatter, 'I cut some more bread-and-butter—'
   'That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.
   The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went down on one knee. 'I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he began.
   Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat upon it.)
   'If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,' continued the King.
   'Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.
   'Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice. 'Now we shall get on better.'
   'You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.
   'Call the next witness!' said the King.
   'Give your evidence,' said the King.
   The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice, 'Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'
   'Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.
   'Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out. 'Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!'
   'Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief. 'Call the next witness.' And he added in an undertone to the Queen, 'Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!'
