   A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of them say, 'Look out now, Five! Don't go splashing paint over me like that!'
   On which Seven looked up and said, 'That's right, Five! Always lay the blame on others!'
   'What for?' said the one who had spoken first.
   'Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, 'and I'll tell him—it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'
   'Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, 'why you are painting those roses?'
   First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners: next the ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came the royal children; there were ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.
   When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said severely 'Who is this?' She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.
   'My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very politely; but she added, to herself, 'Why, they're only a pack of cards, after all. I needn't be afraid of them!'
   'How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage. 'It's no business of MINE.'
   'Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.
   The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave 'Turn them over!'
   'Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.
   'May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone, going down on one knee as he spoke, 'we were trying—'
   'You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.
   'Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers shouted in reply.
   The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was evidently meant for her.
   'Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next.
   'Very,' said Alice: '—where's the Duchess?'
   'What for?' said Alice.
   'No, I didn't,' said Alice: 'I don't think it's at all a pity. I said "What for?"'
   'Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.
   The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her head!' about once in a minute.
   She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself 'It's the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.'
   Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. 'It's no use speaking to it,' she thought, 'till its ears have come, or at least one of them.' In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.
   'How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.
   The Queen smiled and passed on.
   'It's a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice: 'allow me to introduce it.'
   'I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.
   'A cat may look at a king,' said Alice. 'I've read that in some book, but I don't remember where.'
   The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small. 'Off with his head!' she said, without even looking round.
   Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance, screaming with passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog.
   By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: 'but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, 'as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground.' So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her friend.
   The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.
   The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.
   Alice could think of nothing else to say but 'It belongs to the Duchess: you'd better ask HER about it.'
   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.
