   The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice. 'Same as if he had a bone in his throat,' said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back. At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on again:—
   'No, indeed,' said Alice. 'What sort of a dance is it?'
   'Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle. 'Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—'
   '—you advance twice—'
   'Of course,' the Mock Turtle said: 'advance twice, set to partners—'
   'Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, 'you throw the—'
   '—as far out to sea as you can—'
   'Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.
   'Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.
   'Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.
   'Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. 'We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?'
   So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:—
 See how eagerly the lobsters      and the turtles all advance!    They are waiting on the shingle      will you come and join the dance? 
 "You can really have no notion      how delightful it will be    When they take us up and throw us,      with the lobsters, out to sea!"    But the snail replied "Too far, too far!"      and gave a look askance—    Said he thanked the whiting kindly,      but he would not join the dance. 
 '"What matters it how far we go?"      his scaly friend replied.    "There is another shore, you know,      upon the other side.    The further off from England      the nearer is to France—    Then turn not pale, beloved snail,      but come and join the dance. 
   'Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last: 'and I do so like that curious song about the whiting!'
   'Yes,' said Alice, 'I've often seen them at dinn—' she checked herself hastily.
   'I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully. 'They have their tails in their mouths—and they're all over crumbs.'
   'The reason is,' said the Gryphon, 'that they WOULD go with the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn't get them out again. That's all.'
   'I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the Gryphon. 'Do you know why it's called a whiting?'
   'IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very solemnly.
   'Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon. 'I mean, what makes them so shiny?'
   'Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep voice, 'are done with a whiting. Now you know.'
   'Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather impatiently: 'any shrimp could have told you that.'
   'They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle said: 'no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'
   'Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle: 'why, if a fish came to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With what porpoise?"'
   'I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. And the Gryphon added 'Come, let's hear some of YOUR adventures.'
   'Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.
   So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she gained courage as she went on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating 'YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said 'That's very curious.'
   'It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. 'I should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin.' He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.
   'How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!' thought Alice; 'I might as well be at school at once.' However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came very queer indeed:—
   'That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,' said the Gryphon.
   Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way again.
   'She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily. 'Go on with the next verse.'
   'It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject.
   Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:—
   'What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle interrupted, 'if you don't explain it as you go on? It's by far the most confusing thing I ever heard!'
   'Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the Gryphon went on. 'Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?'
   The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked with sobs, to sing this:—
   'Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,      Game, or any other dish?      Who would not give all else for two      Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?      Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?        Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!        Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!      Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,        Beautiful, beauti—FUL SOUP!' 
   'Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.
   'Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!' 
