What Happened to Cunegund, Candide, the Grand Inquisitor, and the Jew
This same Issachar was the most choleric little Hebrew that had ever been in Israel since the captivity of Babylon.
“What,” said he, “thou Galilean slut? The Inquisitor was not enough for thee, but this rascal must come in for a share with me?”
In uttering these words, he drew out a long poniard, which he always carried about him, and never dreaming that his adversary had any arms, he attacked him most furiously; but our honest Westphalian had received from the old woman a handsome sword with the suit of clothes. Candide drew his rapier, and though he was very gentle and sweet-tempered, he laid the Israelite dead on the floor at the fair Cunegund’s feet.
“Holy Virgin!” cried she, “what will become of us? A man killed in my apartment! If the peace-officers come, we are undone.”
“Had  not  Pangloss  been  hanged,”  replied  Candide,  “he  would  have  given  us  most excellent  advice,  in  this  emergency;  for  he  was  a  profound  philosopher.  But,  since  he  is not here, let us consult the old woman.”
She was very sensible, and was beginning to give her advice, when another door opened on  a  sudden.  It  was  now  one  o’clock  in  the  morning,  and  of  course  the  beginning  of Sunday, which, by agreement, fell to the lot of My Lord Inquisitor. Entering he discovered the  flagellated  Candide  with  his  drawn  sword  in  his  hand,  a  dead  body  stretched  on  the floor, Cunegund frightened out of her wits, and the old woman giving advice.
At that very moment, a sudden thought came into Candide’s head. “If this holy man,”
thought he, “should call assistance, I shall most undoubtedly be consigned to the flames, and Miss Cunegund may perhaps meet with no better treatment: besides, he was the cause of my being so cruelly whipped; he is my rival; and as I have now begun to dip my hands in blood, I will kill away, for there is no time to hesitate.”
This whole train of reasoning was clear and instantaneous; so that, without giving time to the Inquisitor to recover from his surprise, he ran him through the body, and laid him by the side of the Jew.
“Here’s another fine piece of work!” cried Cunegund. “Now there can be no mercy for us, we are excommunicated; our last hour is come. But how could you, who are of so mild a temper, despatch a Jew and an Inquisitor in two minutes’ time?”
“Beautiful maiden,” answered Candide, “when a man is in love, is jealous, and has been flogged by the Inquisition, he becomes lost to all reflection.”
The old woman then put in her word:
“There are three Andalusian horses in the stable, with as many bridles and saddles; let the  brave  Candide  get  them  ready.  Madam  has  a  parcel  of  moidores  and  jewels,  let  us mount immediately, though I have lost one buttock; let us set out for Cadiz; it is the finest weather in the world, and there is great pleasure in traveling in the cool of the night.”
Candide, without any further hesitation, saddled the three horses; and Miss Cunegund, the old woman, and he, set out, and traveled thirty miles without once halting. While they were making the best of their way, the Holy Brotherhood entered the house. My Lord, the Inquisitor, was interred in a magnificent manner, and Master Issachar’s body was thrown upon a dunghill.
Candide,  Cunegund,  and  the  old  woman,  had  by  this  time  reached  the  little  town  of Avacena,  in  the  midst  of  the  mountains  of  Sierra  Morena,  and  were  engaged  in  the following conversation in an inn, where they had taken up their quarters.
