The Reception Candide and Cacambo Met with among the Jesuits in Paraguay
Candide had brought with him from Cadiz such a footman as one often meets with on the coasts  of  Spain  and  in  the  colonies.  He  was  the  fourth  part  of  a  Spaniard,  of  a  mongrel breed, and born in Tucuman. He had successively gone through the profession of a singing boy, sexton, sailor, monk, peddler, soldier, and lackey. His name was Cacambo; he had a great affection for his master, because his master was a very good man. He immediately saddled the two Andalusian horses.
“Come, my good master, let us follow the old woman’s advice, and make all the haste we can from this place without staying to look behind us.”
Candide burst into a flood of tears, “O my dear Cunegund, must I then be compelled to quit  you  just  as  the  Governor  was  going  to  honor  us  with  his  presence  at  our  wedding!
Cunegund, so long lost and found again, what will now become of you?”
“Lord!” said Cacambo, “she must do as well as she can; women are never at a loss. God takes care of them, and so let us make the best of our way.”
“But  whither  wilt  thou  carry  me?  where  can  we  go?  what  can  we  do  without Cunegund?” cried the disconsolate Candide.
“By  St.  James  of  Compostella,”  said  Cacambo,  “you  were  going  to  fight  against  the Jesuits of Paraguay; now let us go and fight for them; I know the road perfectly well; I’ll conduct you to their kingdom; they will be delighted with a captain that understands the Bulgarian drill; you will certainly make a prodigious fortune. If we cannot succeed in this world  we  may  in  another.  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  see  new  objects  and  perform  new exploits.”
“Then you have been in Paraguay?” asked Candide.
“Ay, marry, I have,” replied Cacambo. “I was a scout in the College of the Assumption, and am as well acquainted with the new government of the Los Padres as I am with the streets of Cadiz. Oh, it is an admirable government, that is most certain! The kingdom is at present  upwards  of  three  hundred  leagues  in  diameter,  and  divided  into  thirty  provinces; the fathers there are masters of everything, and the people have no money at all; this you must allow is the masterpiece of justice and reason. For my part, I see nothing so divine as the good fathers, who wage war in this part of the world against the troops of Spain and Portugal, at the same time that they hear the confessions of those very princes in Europe; who  kill  Spaniards  in  America  and  send  them  to  Heaven  at  Madrid.  This  pleases  me exceedingly, but let us push forward; you are going to see the happiest and most fortunate of all mortals. How charmed will those fathers be to hear that a captain who understands the Bulgarian military drill is coming to them.”
As soon as they reached the first barrier, Cacambo called to the advance guard, and told them  that  a  captain  wanted  to  speak  to  My  Lord,  the  General.  Notice  was  given  to  the main guard, and immediately a Paraguayan officer ran to throw himself at the feet of the Commandant  to  impart  this  news  to  him.  Candide  and  Cacambo  were  immediately disarmed, and their two Andalusian horses were seized. The two strangers were conducted between  two  files  of  musketeers,  the  Commandant  was  at  the  further  end  with  a  three-cornered cap on his head, his gown tucked up, a sword by his side, and a half-pike in his hand;  he  made  a  sign,  and  instantly  four  and  twenty  soldiers  drew  up  round  the newcomers. A sergeant told them that they must wait, the Commandant could not speak to them;  and  that  the  Reverend  Father  Provincial  did  not  suffer  any  Spaniard  to  open  his mouth but in his presence, or to stay above three hours in the province.
“And where is the Reverend Father Provincial?” said Cacambo.
“He has just come from Mass and is at the parade,” replied the sergeant, “and in about three hours’ time you may possibly have the honor to kiss his spurs.”
“But,” said Cacambo, “the Captain, who, as well as myself, is perishing of hunger, is no Spaniard, but a German; therefore, pray, might we not be permitted to break our fast till we can be introduced to His Reverence?”
The sergeant immediately went and acquainted the Commandant with what he heard.
“God  be  praised,”  said  the  Reverend  Commandant,  “since  he  is  a  German  I  will  hear what he has to say; let him be brought to my arbor.”
Immediately they conducted Candide to a beautiful pavilion adomed with a colonnade of green marble, spotted with yellow, and with an intertexture of vines, which served as a kind of cage for parrots, humming birds, guinea hens, and all other curious kinds of birds.
An excellent breakfast was provided in vessels of gold; and while the Paraguayans were eating coarse Indian corn out of wooden dishes in the open air, and exposed to the burning heat of the sun, the Reverend Father Commandant retired to his cool arbor.
He was a very handsome young man, round-faced, fair, and fresh-colored, his eyebrows were finely arched, he had a piercing eye, the tips of his ears were red, his lips vermilion, and he had a bold and commanding air; but such a boldness as neither resembled that of a Spaniard nor of a Jesuit. He ordered Candide and Cacambo to have their arms restored to them, together with their two Andalusian horses. Cacambo gave the poor beasts some oats to eat close by the arbor, keeping a strict eye upon them all the while for fear of surprise.
Candide having kissed the hem of the Commandant’s robe, they sat down to table.
“It seems you are a German,” said the Jesuit to him in that language.
“Yes, Reverend Father,” answered Candide.
As  they  pronounced  these  words  they  looked  at  each  other  with  great  amazement  and with an emotion that neither could conceal.
“From what part of Germany do you come?” said the Jesuit.
“From the dirty province of Westphalia,” answered Candide. “I was born in the castle of Thunder-ten-tronckh.”
“Oh heavens! is it possible?” said the Commandant.
“What a miracle!” cried Candide.
“Can it be you?” said the Commandant.
On  this  they  both  drew  a  few  steps  backwards,  then  running  into  each  other’s  arms, embraced, and wept profusely.
“Is it you then, Reverend Father? You are the brother of the fair Miss Cunegund? You that was slain by the Bulgarians! You the Baron’s son! You a Jesuit in Paraguay! I must confess this is a strange world we live in. O Pangloss! what joy would this have given you if you had not been hanged.”
The Commandant dismissed the Negro slaves, and the Paraguayans who presented them with liquor in crystal goblets. He returned thanks to God and St. Ignatius a thousand times; he clasped Candide in his arms, and both their faces were bathed in tears.
“You will be more surprised, more affected, more transported,” said Candide, “when I tell you that Miss Cunegund, your sister, whose belly was supposed to have been ripped open, is in perfect health.”
“In your neighborhood, with the Governor of Buenos Ayres; and I myself was going to fight against you.”
Every  word  they  uttered  during  this  long  conversation  was  productive  of  some  new matter  of  astonishment.  Their  souls  fluttered  on  their  tongues,  listened  in  their  ears,  and sparkled in their eyes. Like true Germans, they continued a long while at table, waiting for the Reverend Father; and the Commandant spoke to his dear Candide as follows.
