Candide and Martin Touch upon the English Coast-What They See There
Ah Pangloss! Pangloss! ah Martin! ah my dear Miss Cunegund! What sort of a world is this?” Thus exclaimed Candide as soon as he got on board the Dutch ship.
“Why something very foolish, and very abominable,” said Martin.
“You  are  acquainted  with  England,”  said  Candide;  “are  they  as  great  fools  in  that country as in France?”
“Yes,  but  in  a  different  manner,”  answered  Martin.  “You  know  that  these  two  nations are at war about a few acres of barren land in the neighborhood of Canada, and that they have expended much greater sums in the contest than all Canada is worth. To say exactly whether there are a greater number fit to be inhabitants of a madhouse in the one country than  the  other,  exceeds  the  limits  of  my  imperfect  capacity;  I  know  in  general  that  the people we are going to visit are of a very dark and gloomy disposition.”
As they were chatting thus together they arrived at Portsmouth. The shore on each side the harbor was lined with a multitude of people, whose eyes were steadfastly fixed on a lusty man who was kneeling down on the deck of one of the men-of-war, with something tied  before  his  eyes.  Opposite  to  this  personage  stood  four  soldiers,  each  of  whom  shot three bullets into his skull, with all the composure imaginable; and when it was done, the whole company went away perfectly well satisfied.
“What  the  devil  is  all  this  for?”  said  Candide,  “and  what  demon,  or  foe  of  mankind, lords it thus tyrannically over the world?”
He then asked who was that lusty man who had been sent out of the world with so much ceremony. When he received for answer, that it was an admiral.
“And pray why do you put your admiral to death?”
“Because he did not put a sufficient number of his fellow creatures to death. You must know, he had an engagement with a French admiral, and it has been proved against him that he was not near enough to his antagonist.”
“But,” replied Candide, “the French admiral must have been as far from him.”
“There is no doubt of that; but in this country it is found requisite, now and then, to put an admiral to death, in order to encourage the others to fight.”
Candide was so shocked at what he saw and heard, that he would not set foot on shore, but  made  a  bargain  with  the  Dutch  skipper  (were  he  even  to  rob  him  like  the  captain  of Surinam) to carry him directly to Venice.
The skipper was ready in two days. They sailed along the coast of France, and passed
within  sight  of  Lisbon,  at  which  Candide  trembled.  From  thence  they  proceeded  to  the Straits, entered the Mediterranean, and at length arrived at Venice.
“God  be  praised,”  said  Candide,  embracing  Martin,  “this  is  the  place  where  I  am  to behold my beloved Cunegund once again. I can confide in Cacambo, like another self. All is well, all is very well, all is well as possible.”
