What Befell Candide and Martin on Their Passage
The old philosopher, whose name was Martin, took shipping with Candide for Bordeaux.
Both  had  seen  and  suffered  a  great  deal,  and  had  the  ship  been  going  from  Surinam  to Japan round the Cape of Good Hope, they could have found sufficient entertainment for each other during the whole voyage, in discoursing upon moral and natural evil.
Candide,  however,  had  one  advantage  over  Martin:  he  lived  in  the  pleasing  hopes  of seeing Miss Cunegund once more; whereas, the poor philosopher had nothing to hope for.
Besides, Candide had money and jewels, and, not withstanding he had lost a hundred red sheep  laden  with  the  greatest  treasure  outside  of  El  Dorado,  and  though  he  still  smarted from  the  reflection  of  the  Dutch  skipper’s  knavery,  yet  when  he  considered  what  he  had still left, and repeated the name of Cunegund, especially after meal times, he inclined to Pangloss’s doctrine.
“And pray,” said he to Martin, “what is your opinion of the whole of this system? What notion have you of moral and natural evil?”
“Sir,” replied Martin, “our priest accused me of being a Socinian; but the real truth is, I am a Manichaean.”
“Nay, now you are jesting,” said Candide; “there are no Manichaeans existing at present in the world.”
“And yet I am one,” said Martin; “but I cannot help it. I cannot for the soul of me think otherwise.”
“Surely the Devil must be in you,” said Candide.
“He  concerns  himself  so  much,”  replied  Martin,  “in  the  affairs  of  this  world  that  it  is very probable he may be in me as well as everywhere else; but I must confess, when I cast my eye on this globe, or rather globule, I cannot help thinking that God has abandoned it to some malignant being. I always except El Dorado. I scarce ever knew a city that did not wish the destruction of its neighboring city; nor a family that did not desire to exterminate some other family. The poor in all parts of the world bear an inveterate hatred to the rich, even  while  they  creep  and  cringe  to  them;  and  the  rich  treat  the  poor  like  sheep,  whose wool and flesh they barter for money; a million of regimented assassins traverse Europe from one end to the other, to get their bread by regular depredation and murder, because it is  the  most  gentlemanlike  profession.  Even  in  those  cities  which  seem  to  enjoy  the blessings  of  peace,  and  where  the  arts  flourish,  the  inhabitants  are  devoured  with  envy, care, and inquietudes, which are greater plagues than any experienced in a town besieged.
Private chagrins are still more dreadful than public calamities. In a word,” concluded the philosopher, “I have seen and suffered so much that I am a Manichaean.”
“And yet there is some good in the world,” replied Candide.
“Maybe so,” said Martin, “but it has escaped my knowledge.”
While they were deeply engaged in this dispute they heard the report of cannon, which redoubled  every  moment.  Each  took  out  his  glass,  and  they  spied  two  ships  warmly engaged  at  the  distance  of  about  three  miles.  The  wind  brought  them  both  so  near  the French  ship  that  those  on  board  her  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  the  fight  with  great  ease.
After  several  smart  broadsides  the  one  gave  the  other  a  shot  between  wind  and  water which sunk her outright. Then could Candide and Martin plainly perceive a hundred men on  the  deck  of  the  vessel  which  was  sinking,  who,  with  hands  uplifted  to  Heaven,  sent forth piercing cries, and were in a moment swallowed up by the waves.
“Well,” said Martin, “you now see in what manner mankind treat one another.”
“It  is  certain,”  said  Candide,  “that  there  is  something  diabolical  in  this  affair.”  As  he was  speaking  thus  he  spied  something  of  a  shining  red  hue,  which  swam  close  to  the vessel. The boat was hoisted out to see what it might be, when it proved to be one of his sheep. Candide felt more joy at the recovery of this one animal than he did grief when he lost the other hundred, though laden with the large diamonds of El Dorado.
The French captain quickly perceived that the victorious ship belonged to the crown of Spain;  that  the  other  was  a  Dutch  pirate,  and  the  very  same  captain  who  had  robbed Candide. The immense riches which this villain had amassed, were buried with him in the deep, and only this one sheep saved out of the whole.
“You see,” said Candide to Martin, “that vice is sometimes punished. This villain, the Dutch skipper, has met with the fate he deserved.”
“Very  true,”  said  Martin,  “but  why  should  the  passengers  be  doomed  also  to destruction? God has punished the knave, and the Devil has drowned the rest.”
The  French  and  Spanish  ships  continued  their  cruise,  and  Candide  and  Martin  their conversation. They disputed fourteen days successively, at the end of which they were just as  far  advanced  as  the  first  moment  they  began.  However,  they  had  the  satisfaction  of disputing, of communicating their ideas, and of mutually comforting each other. Candide embraced his sheep with transport.
“Since  I  have  found  thee  again,”  said  he,  “I  may  possibly  find  my  Cunegund  once more.”
